Chapter SCo4

Now to bridge the gap between using logic gates to do math, using capacitors to store electrons which represented data
to displaying things on a screen, was a very giant leap, but in terms of complexity not so much on the surface, but a lot if you dig deep.


Everything Begins At Something Called a FrameBuffer.

Imagine a grid of pixels, each pixel has a number assigned to it according to its location.
Like the pixel in the top left region of the grid has the numbers, row = 0, column = 0 or [0, 0] 
assigned to it.

Now take such a grid of dimensions say 100x100 which gives you 10000 pixels, or 10000 unique positions.

Now allocate some space in the RAM (random access memory) of your computer, how much you ask? Exactly 10000 bits.
Which is more or less just 1.22kb of data, which is in today's standards, close to nothing.

Each bit in that memory block corresponds to a pixel on the grid.

Now begin reading the data from the first memory address (see SB7) till the end of the data block,
and if there is a 1 stored in the data slot, print on the screen say a '#' and if nothing is present in data slot,
or if 0 is stored, then print a ' ', and viola you have learned how to draw things on screen using simple coding logic.

Looping over something, reading data and printing to console are simple concepts and from that now you can 
draw things on screen.

The memory block we used to store the value of each pixel is called a FrameBuffer, and even though in this particular example
we used printing to console, to draw things. This is not how the first framebuffers were used.

When the first display screen for a computer was made, it was a CRT firing electrons on a phosphor sheet, phosphorus has a property called
cathodeluminescence, which means it emits light when hit by electrons, as to how we made an electron gun, bro please I am not that smart.

Anyways a machine read data from RAM and converted it to voltages using an DAC (Digital-to-analog) converter, and on the basis of that
voltage the electron gun was fired, and the appropriate light was produced on the screen.

Modern displays work on the same principle, they still uses FrameBuffers, the only thing that is changed is that,
in the example we represent 1 pixel with 1 bit of data, which gave us a black and white display.

But for color display we store each pixel data in 32bits, 8 bits for red, 8 bit for green, 8 bits for blue and 8 bits for intensity or opaqueness.

As for the term refresh rate, it means how many times in a single second the CPU reads the framebuffer and draws things.
Like a refesh rate of 60hertz means it reads the framebuffer 60 times in a single second.

Of course the actual mathematics and engineering regarding making this all possible is very complex, this is why no single person accomplished this, this was done
over many years by the collaboration of many smart people and a lot of other people helping them.

But that was all about hardware aspect of how displaying things on a screen work.
Next let's talk more about coding stuff.

Next chapter about Functions.
