Chapter SCo7 

Data types, finally a chapter I have been dying to write about.
So far I have been using things like
a = 10
b = something other number

and so on....

But you see in programming, we have a name for each type of data we can store in a variable.
Those Names Are as follows

int or integers, float/double or real numbers, string or words, char or single characters, bool/boolean or true/false

Basically every single variable which holds data, and doesn't refrence a function 
have one of these kind of data. Most languages we declare variables like so:

int a = 10   This tells the compiler that the variable named 'a' can only store integer values
float b = 1.0234    This tells the compiler that the variable named 'b' can only real number values
string c = "Hello There"    This tells the compiler that the variable named 'c' can only store words
char d = 'z'   This tells the compiler that the variable named 'd' can only store single characters
bool e = true    This tells the compiler that the variable named 'e' can only store true or false.


Each data type is kind of related to one another, because at the end of the day everything is just stored in binary,
and binary is converted to decimal numbers. So at the most basic level, all type of data can be converted into numbers.

But to be able to store things like words or characters we humans decided to come up with some rules, 
that is to say some numbers would represent letters, and when we combine numbers, it would be the same as combining letters
to form words.

Like A = 1, a = 2, B = 3, b = 3 and so on (note this is only for example)

This system of assigning numbers to letters of the English Alphabet and other non-numeric keys on your keyboard was
called the ASCII system, which stands for "American System of something something"

But it only covered the english language and only a few symbols, but there are so many languages out there and so many
symbols, so to cover all of those we user utf-8 system today.

utf-8 is an encoding system which covers almost all languages and symbols.

And this is why I said all data types are linked to each other, but ti doesn't mean that they are the same.

Ok that's enough about data types, next about parallel execution.